---
title: "Using AI to Design a Wing Part One"
date: 2020-05-09T15:30:11-03:00
draft: false
---

If it is possible to transform a blob into a beautifully streamlined fuselage using AI, it is possible to design a design a wing too. That does not mean it is easier however; wings are a lot more delicate to design than a fuselage. We cannot just run our drag minimizing scripts on the wings and expect them to not mess anything up.

# What We Need To Worry About

There are two sets of things we need to worry about. There are issues that translate into boundary conditions (i.e. don't do that and we're fine), and issues that translate into a heuristic (i.e. I can afford a little of this, to get a little of that). In other words, there are tings we can simply avoid altogether, and other things we will have to juggle with, to find the best solution. Let's begin with the boundary conditions of our problem:

* Center of lift's position in relation to the center of mass. We need the center of lift constantly behind the center of mass at full load and minimum load
* Wing loading needs to remain within legal and safety standards. Gliders have a maximum wing loading in the 40kg/m² to 50kg/m²


* The lift generated by the wings at the expected flight speeds. We need to make sure we have a speed range wide enough.
* The drag induced. Changes in the wing profile greatly change drag as a function of speed.
* Wing area distribution contributes to wing resistance. A thinner longer wing is less resistant than a shorter thicker wing.
* Wing height affects lift coefficient and drag

* Flutter effects caused by the resonant frequencies

# The Heuristic Function

Now we need to put all of what we outlined above (or whatever we can) into a heuristic

# Programming Demands A Proper Ambiance
